## RootFounders monorepo

### Description
RootFounders is a decentralized and permission-less protocol that makes it easy to find a cofounder for your project while validating the idea at the same time.

*Find a cofounder:* Building alone is not fun, but finding a cofounder is hard. Instead of searching among random people at conferences or trying to get out of your X/Farcaster bubble, describe your idea on the platform, together with a link to a landing page, source code or MVP. Users can then apply to become a cofounder and your friends can endorse you to boost your legitimacy.

*Validate ideas:* every user can tip an already posted idea and add comments. This way founder gets first market signals and the project gets visibility (not to mention some extra money 😉).

*Build in public* every idea owner can post updates.

🔥🔥🔥__TEST IT__🔥🔥🔥

PoC is deployed to Arbitrum Sepolia. You can access the UI at https://rootfounders.makingprogress.dev (this is early work, so please be gentle...)

The contract is deployed at 0x07A8752DdE20d772033ff71e1306102431C449AC.

Have a look at [RootFounders project being hosted on RootFounders itself](https://rootfounders.makingprogress.dev/projects/0) 😀

### Features
**Tip**: send a tip to a project you like. Smart contract supports both Ether and ERC-20, the UI (frontend) only Ether for the time being. This functionality is implemented using OpenZeppelin's PaymentSplitter (i.e. each project has its own address for tipping).

**Comment**: comment on projects. Comment text is sent in calldata, so the user doesn't pay for it, but it's recorded on chain. It's then picked up by our worker and cached in the database. This keeps comments decentralized and not owned by us.

**Create project**: describe your idea and present it on RootFounders. Projects are saved on chain with their descriptions being pinned to IPFS. This makes it easy for anyone to own their project data and they can pin it themselves.

**Teams**: currently only supported by the smart contract, allows users to apply to join a team, be allowed to join and leave a team. These are all on-chain events.

From the technical perspective, we designed RootFounders so that anyone could build an alternative UI for it (decentralized frontends).
Users own their data (project descriptions, comments) and can perform actions even without the offical UI. This makes RootFounders truly decentralized protocol.

### Installation
Docker Compose setup will run everything for you but the node. You can use a public RPC provider or, to test locally, Anvil (part of Foundry).

First, copy the example config (it has settings prepared for Anvil):
```bash
cp rootfounders.example.toml rootfounders.toml
```

Deploy the contract to Anil:
```shell
cd contracts && forge script script/main.s.sol:RootFoundersScript --fork-url http://localhost:8545 --broadcast
```

Now copy contract address and paste it to `rootfounders.toml` and also `src/frontend/.env` (there's also `.env.example` to get you started).

Run docker:
```shell
docker compose up
```

It will take a while before everything is built and containers start. When you see `web: Listening on :3333` then your local instance is ready to handle requests.
By default, the frontend runs at `http://localhost:3333`.

### Usage
After following all steps described in "Installation", go to `http://localhost:3333` to access the UI.

### Structure
- `src/contracts` submodule that leads to git repo containing RootFounders smart contract (Solidity)
- `src/worker` is like a cache for the smart contract: listens for events and saves data to the database (Go)

- `src/abis` contains smart contract ABI generated by go-ethereum's `abigen`
- `src/config` manages configuration (Go)
- `src/database` manages database connections (Go)
- `src/website` is RootFounders website (Server Side Rendered, Go)

- `src/frontend` contains web components needed for the UI (Typescript)
